11.
THE VIRTUOUS CIRCLE THE BLACK ACT WINDSOR CASTLE, 
located just west of London, is one of the great royal residencies of England. 
In the early eighteenth century, the castle was surrounded by a great forest, 
full of deer, though little of this remains today. 
One of the keepers of the forest in 1722, Baptist Nunn, was locked in to a violent conflict. 
On June 27 he recorded, Blacks came in the night shot at me 3 times 2 bullets into my chamber window 
and [I] agreed to pay them 5 guineas at Crowthorne on the 30th. 
Another entry in Nunn’s diary read, “A fresh surprise. One appeared disguised with a message of destruction.” 
Who were these mysterious “Blacks” making threats, shooting at Nunn, and demanding money? 
The Blacks were groups of local men who had their faces “blacked” to conceal their appearance at night. 
They appeared widely across southern England in this period, killing and maiming deer and other animals, 
burning down haystacks and barns, and destroying fences and fish ponds. On the surface it was sheer lawlessness, 
but it wasn’t. Illegal hunting (poaching) deer in lands owned by the king or other members of the 
aristocracy had been going on for a long time. In the 1640s, during the Civil War, 
the entire population of deer at Windsor Castle was killed. After the Restoration in 1660, 
when Charles II came to the throne, the deer park was restocked. 
But the Blacks were not just poaching deer to eat; they also engaged in wanton destruction. 
To what end? A crucial building block of the Glorious Revolution of 1688 was the pluralistic nature of 
interests represented in Parliament. None of the merchants, industrialists, 
gentry, or aristocracy allied with William of Orange and then with the Hanoverian monarchs, 
who succeeded Queen Anne in 1714, were strong enough to impose their will unilaterally. 
Attempts at restoring the Stuart monarchy continued throughout much of the eighteenth century. 
After James II’s death in 1701, his son, James Francis Edward Stuart, the “Old Pretender,” 
was recognized as the lawful heir to the English Crown by France, Spain, the pope, and supporters 
of the Stuart monarchy in England and Scotland, the so-called Jacobites. In 1708 the Old Pretender 
attempted to take back the throne with support of French troops, but was unsuccessful. 
In the ensuing decades there would be several Jacobite revolts, including major ones in 1715 and 1719. 
In 1745–46, the Old Pretender’s son, Charles Edward Stuart, the “Young Pretender,”

Why Nations Fail (pp. 302-305). Profile. Kindle Edition. 